electricity plays an important role in our modern world: computers, power, motors, lights. At the most fundamental level, electricity is the movement of charged particles, in a conductor, like a wire, in response to forces such as electric fields. On a more abstract level, electricity is the manifestation of the electromagnetic forces between atoms, molecules, and charged particles (like protons and electrons), driving everything from basic chemical reactions to the metabolic processes of our body and the technology we use daily. Many of the forces we encounter daily, such as friction, tension, elastic forces, with the exception of gravity, is the result of electric forces acting at the atomic level in the most harmonious and perfect balance.


Most objects in our visible and tangible world in electrical neutrality conceals their content of positive and negative "matter," which we call positive and negative charges. Only when this neutrality is disturbed does nature reveal to us the effects of imbalance of positive or negative charge. When a body is "charged" it means it has an imbalance of negative and positive charges. Charged bodies exert forces on each other. How? Each type of charge repels the same type but attracts the opposite type. That is, unlike charges attract and like charges repel.

To show this, we will explore an electrical interaction demonstration, so hopefully, you'll be ready to roll up your sleeves and dive in!
You'll see there are two kinds of charge, which we can call positive and negative. All matter is a mixture of positive protons and negative electrons which are attracting and repelling with this great force called electrical force. How big is this force compared to gravitation? It is about a few billion times stronger!

You know that atoms are made of positive protons in the nucleus and with electrons outside. If this electrical force is so great, what keep protons and electrons from piling on top of one another? The answer has to do with quantum effects. According to uncertainty principle, if electrons are confined in a region that is very close to the protons, the electrons must have some mean square momentum which is larger the more we try to confine them. It is this motion, that keeps the electrical attraction from bringing the electrons any closer to the protons. 

In 1911, Ernest Rutherford discovered the nuclear by bombarding gold foil with alpha particles, showing that most of the atom's mass was concentrated in a tiny, dense nucleus. The discovery raised a curious question, what's keeping the protons together? They are all positively charged, according to *Coulomb's Law*, they should strongly repel each other. Why don't they push themselves apart? It turns out that it is the nuclear forces or the strong forces, which are greater than the electrical forces that hold the protons together. The nuclear forces or the strong forces have much shorter range - on the order of 10^-15 meters (about the size of a nucleus), their forces falls off much more rapidly than 1/r^2. The strong nuclear forces act between each proton (or neutron) and its nearest neighbors, while the electrical forces act over larger distances, between each proton and all others in the nucleus. The more protons in a nucleus, the stronger the electrical forces. It is this delicate balance between strong nuclear forces and electrical forces that keep the nucleus from flying apart! 

What holds a negative charged electron together? If all electrons are negative charged and repel one another, what keeps them together? It's not the nuclear forces. The question remains a mystery! 

In conclusion, it is a combination of electrical forces, quantum-mechanic effects and the nuclear forces that determine the structure and properties of materials. Some materials are hard; some are soft. Some are electrical "conductors" (electrons are free to move about), while others are "insulators" (electrons are bound tightly to individual atom). 

